Well, howdy folks, and welcome to this lesson on Terraform Init.
You can probably tell by the name that init is short for initializing and that
it initializes something in the Terraform workflow. So,
let's find out what it really does. Well, terraform init is a command,
which you can see at the top of this slide -- terraform space init --
and it basically initializes the working directory that contains your Terraform
code. Now that's a really simplistic approach to understand Terraform init,
so let's break it down.
The very first step Terraform init does is to download the supporting or
ancillary components required for your code to work.
These are things like the providers,
which provide the libraries and code for your resources to be able to make API
calls to whatever infrastructure you're deploying into, and also modules,
which we'll learn more about in the course later. Additionally,
this also sets up the backend for storing data from state file.
Now the Terraform state file is going to be discussed in much more detail later
in the course. But for right now,
just know that it is a mechanism by which Terraform tracks resources,
so that it knows when to deploy or destroy a resource,
depending on how you change the code. Now,
Terraform init is a critical command to any data from project,
because this is the first command that you'll be running when you're done
writing your initial code.
This command basically goes and fetches the providers, also known as plugins,
which are going to provide the resources that your Terraform code is going to
use. Terraform init can either go and download the plugins and modules from the
Terraform public registry over the internet or from your custom URLs where you
might've uploaded your own custom modules written for Terraform.
It caches those plugins and modules. However,
if a newer version of the module is available,
it's going to download it and install that version by default.
There's a lot of nice functionality available with the switches or flags
available with the Terraform init command,
which I'll urge you to go and have a look at.
Thank you for going through this lesson.