Hello, Cloud Gurus.
My name is Moosa Khalid and I'll be your training architect for this HashiCorp
Certified Terraform Associate Foundations course,
which is the first of the 2 modules, which helps you get Terraform certified.
We'll be talking about why we should be thinking about getting Terraform
certified. You may have come across a term,
IaC or infrastructure as code,
which basically is the process of managing and provisioning IT systems through
machine-readable definition files,
rather than physically logging into systems or using other interactive
configuration tools. Now there's quite a few IaC tools out there,
such as Ansible, Chef and Puppet. However,
Terraform is a bit different from these IaC tools because
it keeps track of all the resources that you've deployed for you.
You'll also be expanding your skills and knowledge of Terraform and its best
practices.
One of the best things about Terraform is that it's really easy to get started
with. You just download a self-contained binary and you're ready to go,
but with that comes a little bit of an issue because the off the shelf
time for learning about Terraform is so quick that people don't usually apply
the best practices that HashiCorp recommends.
So that's something that we'll be learning and that's something that will be
taught in this certification course.
You'll also be getting insight into the enterprise features of Terraform,
which is part of the certification objective,
and you'll be learning how it can help your teams be more performant,
more optimized,
and collaborate better on the Terraform-managed services platform offered by
HashiCorp. And finally,
we'll be solidifying the Terraform fundamentals,
having the confidence to go ahead and use Terraform in more advanced
deployments,
now that you're more aware of the best practices and the huge variety of
providers that it works against. Of course,
we'll be talking more about Terraform providers in the course,
so don't worry about that part yet,
but just know that Terraform has been adopted by businesses of all ranges from
small to enterprise because of its cloud-agnostic nature,
meaning Terraform can work across many clouds. It's flexibility,
and it's off the shelf ease of learning.
Being recognized as a Terraform expert goes to show your versatility with
infrastructure deployment in general.
I hope I got you excited for this certification,
so buckle your seat belts and join me in the course.